.TH VLOCK-MAIN 8 "28 July 2007" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
vlock-main \- lock current virtual console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlock-main [plugins...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvlock-main\fR is part of vlock(1), the Virtual Console locking program for
Linux.  Once started it only exits if correct authentification data (either the
current user's or root's) is received.  Authentification can be done against
PAM or shadow, determined at compile time.  The command line arguments specify
the plugins that should be loaded by \fBvlock-main\fR.  If plugin support is
disabled at compile time, only "all" is supported, disabling console switching
while \fBvlock-main\fR is run.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.B USER
.IP
When \fBvlock\fR is run as root (uid 0) and the \fBUSER\fR environment variable
is set, \fBvlock-main\fR prompts for this user's password.
.PP
.B VLOCK_MESSAGE
.IP
If this variable is set it will be printed before each password prompt.
.PP
.B VLOCK_ALL_MESSAGE
.B VLOCK_CURRENT_MESSAGE
.IP
Like \fBVLOCK_MESSAGE\fR but if you set these variables instead, \fBvlock-main\fR will
automatically choose the message.  \fBVLOCK_ALL_MESSAGE\fR is printed when all
sessions are locked and console switching is disabled. Otherwise
\fBVLOCK_CURRENT_MESSAGE\fR is printed.  These variables will only be used
if \fBVLOCK_MESSAGE\fR is unset.
.PP
.B VLOCK_PROMPT_TIMEOUT
.IP
Set this variable to specify the amount of time (in seconds) you will have to
enter your password at the password prompt.  \fBWarning\fR: If this value is too
low, you will have trouble unlocking your machine.
.PP
.B VLOCK_TIMEOUT
.IP
Set this variable to specify the timeout (in seconds) after which the screen
saver plugins (if any) will be invoked.
.SH SIGNALS
Several signals are ignored.  \fBvlock-main\fR will try to exit cleanly if
SIGTERM is received.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vlock (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Benkstein <frank-vlock@benkstein.net>
